ABSTRACT
A country's ability to thrive depends on how resourceful its citizens are, which is strongly correlated with the caliber of education provided there. Only when every member of the society is actively involved in the economy and per capita income rises can such advancements or developments take place. This is only feasible if government education programs are designed to promote self-reliance and a practical education that can result in the development of jobs. Entrepreneurial education is a means through which government could attain such development in the society. Therefore, this paper examines how the role of entrepreneurial education and how it could help in job creation in Nigeria. The challenges of quality entrepreneurial education were also discussed. This research work, therefore examined the need for entrepreneurial education as a tool for reducing unemployment rate in Nigeria. And also to determine the strength of entrepreneurial education in developing the entrepreneurial skills. The study adopted simple random sampling technique. The data was analyzed and presented using tables and percentages. The findings of this study suggests that there should be a paradigm shift from general education to entrepreneurial education in the present realities for the need to develop entrepreneurial skills, empower Nigerian youths and create business opportunities and at the same time ameliorate some socio-economic problems, unemployment and other social vices prevalent among unemployed youths. Therefore, formalized entrepreneurial training can enhance acquisition of relevant skills for self-employment and self-reliant. The study recommends that there should be a working partnership, bridging the gap between the educational institutions and the industry. Nigerian Educational Research and Development Council (NERDC), Federal and State Ministry of Education in collaboration with Centre for Entrepreneurial Development in Nigeria should make more deliberate efforts to identify entrepreneurial as strategic attempt to address youth unemployment. This could be done by cultivating and promoting entrepreneurial culture among students as a remedy to escalating unemployment challenges.